public/technical/technical-challenge.md, before:

Team Budget: $200.00
Time Limit: 8 minutes or less

Assembly Equipment is at least one device that uses Technical Methods to assemble a Stack.
Destruction Equipment is at least one device that uses a different Technical Methods to disassemble and/or destroy a Stack.

Technical Methods refers to the use of principles in fields such as chemistry, computer science, electricity, hydraulics, mathematics, mechanical engineering, physics, structural engineering, or other technical fields.
Stack is a group of team-provided, physical Stack Items that are placed in the Assembly Zone within the Presentation Area.

A team member may operate, power, or otherwise interact with, but must not be any part of the Assembly Equipment or Destruction Equipment. 
The Assembly Equipment and the Destruction Equipment must not be any part of one another. 

The Assembly Equipment and Destruction Equipment should be visible from 25ft (7.62m) away.

Bring up to 20 commercially produced or created Stack Items that will be assembled into a Stack, clearly numbered 1-20.

Each Stack Item may be any size and/or shape that fit within the 2ft x 2ft (0.61m x 0.61m) taped Assembly Zone, visible from 25ft (7.62m) away

Stack Assembly means using your team’s Assembly Equipment to assemble up to 20 Stack Items into a Stack within the 2ft x 2ft Assembly Zone.
Your Stack must not extend beyond the vertical planes of the outside edge of the tape.


Your team may create a Stack using Stack Items in any configuration: touching, connected to one another, placed on top of one another, in any order.

Only Stack Items, Assembly Equipment, and Destruction Equipment, and Team members may be in the Assembly Zone. (plus cords)

Unused Stack Item(s) should be placed outside the largest Target Zone, but within the Presentation Area.


Risk Taking means including potentially precarious elements in the Stack Items and is more effective when the Stack Items and the Stack are designed in a novel way, extend beyond the minimum requirements, and/or demonstrate a higher degree of complexity and/or difficulty than required.
, may be demonstrated in:
    the size of the Stack Items
    the shape of the Stack Items
    the weight of the Stack Items
    the center of gravity of each Stack Item
    the texture of the Stack Items
    how your team used materials to create and/or modify the Stack Items.

Risk Taking in the design of the Stack may be demonstrated in:
    the number of Stack Items used in the Stack, up to 20
    the height of the Stack above the floor
    the width of the Stack relative to the height
    the size of the base relative to the top of the Stack
    the placement of Stack Items within the Stack
    whether and/or how the Stack Items connect to and/or touch one another
    the consistency in the design of the Stack from one attempt to another

Signal to the Appraisers that your team has finished Stack Assembly and is ready for Stack

Stack Destruction means using your team’s Destruction Equipment to disassemble and/or destroy the Stack so that as many Stack Items come to rest outside the Assembly Zone and within the Target Zones.

Your team must not add Stack Item(s) to the Stack once Stack Destruction begins. 

Boundaries of zones are invisible vertical planes extenending upwards from the outermose edge of the tape.

Once Stack Destruction begins, Stack Items that fully cross the vertical planes marked by the
outside edge of the taped Assembly Zone must not be moved and/or directed by anything other
than the tournament-provided floor and/or other Stack Items until Stack Destruction is complete.

Stack Destruction is complete when all Stack Items have been removed from the Assembly Zone
and come to rest, at a signal from the team, or when the 8-minute Presentation time ends. 

Your team may complete Stack Assembly and Stack Destruction as many times as you choose during the Presentation, highest scores will be used, but your team must remove all Stack Items from the Target Zones and the Assembly Zone before beginning Stack Assembly again.

Stack Items and Equipment may be modified between attempts.


✅ Create and present a story about at least one character who lacks something important, tangible or intangible, and attempts to gain it.

Your team may choose whether or not the character(s) gain The Important Thing during the story.

✅ Include a Wishful Scene, in which the character(s) express an intense desire for The Important Thing.

✅ Include a Frustration Point, in which it seems as if the character(s) have no way of gaining The Important Thing.

The Wishful and Frustrations may be in any order, but must be distinct.

Any Setting.

✅ Present TWO creations that show off your team’s interests, skills, areas of strength, and talents.
Your team may create anything you wish, including props, music, technical gadgets, costumes, physical actions, etc.
Each Team Choice Element should have a meaningful connection to your team’s Central Challenge solution and must be presented as part of the 8-minute Presentation.
Each Element is judged on Creativity, Effort, and Integration into the Presentation.




Initial setup of Presentation Area
Team enters with Assembly Equipment, Destruction Equipment, and Stack Items, outside the floor area
Team sets up equipment and places Stack Items
Story begins
    A Wishful Scene occurs 
            (15/15 pts for Dramatic Impact of Wishful Scene)
            (20/20 Points are allocated for Creativity of how someone wishes for how someone attempts to gain something they lack)
            (5/15 beginning points for Clear and Effective Storytelling)
        Assembly Equipment activates
            (15/15 pts Design Assembly, my magic wand is designed well)
            (15/15 pts Innovation Assembly)
        Stack Items begin moving into Assembly Zone
            (0/30 Risk for Stackables design points are allocated, as my items are cubes, the least risky shape)
        Team Choice Element 1 presentation
            (10/10 Creativity and Originality, mine is the only IcosaDodecahedron Team Choice element)
            (10/10 Quality, Workmanship, or Effort, for my IcosaDodecahedron is perfect mathematically)
            (10/10 Integration into the Presentation, its very integrated)
        Stack assembly completes
        Team signals completion of Stack Assembly
            (2/30 Risk Stack Design points are allocated, as my stack was one of top of the other, no wobble, only a pyramid is safer)
    Frustration Point occurs in story
        (5/15 middle points for Clear and Effective Storytelling, things are easy to understand, and events happen for reasons)
        (15/15 pts for Dramatic Impact of Frustration Point)
        Destruction Equipment activates
            (15 pts Design Destruction)
            (15 pts Innovation Destruction)
        Stack Destruction begins
        Stack Items move out of Assembly Zone
        Stack Items land in various Target Zones
        Stack Destruction completes (all items out of Assembly Zone)
        Team signals end of Stack Destruction (if not already complete)
        (Points calculation for Stack Items in Target Zones
            Four half points for each item in Target Zone 1
            Two points for each item in Target Zone 2
            One point for each item in Target Zone 3
            Zero points for each item outside Target Zones or in the Assembly Zone
        )
    Team Choice Element 2 presentation
        (My creative and original 10/10 Dodecahedron is presented, of perfect 10/10 quality, and integrated 10/10)
    Story resolution
        (5/15 end points for Clear and Effective Storytelling, someone laughed)
(Optional) Repeat steps 5-18 if team chooses multiple attempts
Team calls "TIME!"
Judges ask questions
Review organized points
    
End of 8-minute time limit

Commit message:

fix, detailed events, move toss class

public/technical/technical-challenge.md, after:

Team Budget: $200.00
Time Limit: 8 minutes or less

Assembly Equipment is at least one device that uses Technical Methods to assemble a Stack.
Destruction Equipment is at least one device that uses a different Technical Methods to disassemble and/or destroy a Stack.

Technical Methods refers to the use of principles in fields such as chemistry, computer science, electricity, hydraulics, mathematics, mechanical engineering, physics, structural engineering, or other technical fields.
Stack is a group of team-provided, physical Stack Items that are placed in the Assembly Zone within the Presentation Area.

A team member may operate, power, or otherwise interact with, but must not be any part of the Assembly Equipment or Destruction Equipment. 
The Assembly Equipment and the Destruction Equipment must not be any part of one another. 

The Assembly Equipment and Destruction Equipment should be visible from 25ft (7.62m) away.

Bring up to 20 commercially produced or created Stack Items that will be assembled into a Stack, clearly numbered 1-20.

Each Stack Item may be any size and/or shape that fit within the 2ft x 2ft (0.61m x 0.61m) taped Assembly Zone, visible from 25ft (7.62m) away

Stack Assembly means using your team’s Assembly Equipment to assemble up to 20 Stack Items into a Stack within the 2ft x 2ft Assembly Zone.
Your Stack must not extend beyond the vertical planes of the outside edge of the tape.


Your team may create a Stack using Stack Items in any configuration: touching, connected to one another, placed on top of one another, in any order.

Only Stack Items, Assembly Equipment, and Destruction Equipment, and Team members may be in the Assembly Zone. (plus cords)

Unused Stack Item(s) should be placed outside the largest Target Zone, but within the Presentation Area.


Risk Taking means including potentially precarious elements in the Stack Items and is more effective when the Stack Items and the Stack are designed in a novel way, extend beyond the minimum requirements, and/or demonstrate a higher degree of complexity and/or difficulty than required.
, may be demonstrated in:
    the size of the Stack Items
    the shape of the Stack Items
    the weight of the Stack Items
    the center of gravity of each Stack Item
    the texture of the Stack Items
    how your team used materials to create and/or modify the Stack Items.

Risk Taking in the design of the Stack may be demonstrated in:
    the number of Stack Items used in the Stack, up to 20
    the height of the Stack above the floor
    the width of the Stack relative to the height
    the size of the base relative to the top of the Stack
    the placement of Stack Items within the Stack
    whether and/or how the Stack Items connect to and/or touch one another
    the consistency in the design of the Stack from one attempt to another

Signal to the Appraisers that your team has finished Stack Assembly and is ready for Stack

Stack Destruction means using your team’s Destruction Equipment to disassemble and/or destroy the Stack so that as many Stack Items come to rest outside the Assembly Zone and within the Target Zones.

Your team must not add Stack Item(s) to the Stack once Stack Destruction begins. 

Boundaries of zones are invisible vertical planes extenending upwards from the outermose edge of the tape.

Once Stack Destruction begins, Stack Items that fully cross the vertical planes marked by the
outside edge of the taped Assembly Zone must not be moved and/or directed by anything other
than the tournament-provided floor and/or other Stack Items until Stack Destruction is complete.

Stack Destruction is complete when all Stack Items have been removed from the Assembly Zone
and come to rest, at a signal from the team, or when the 8-minute Presentation time ends. 

Your team may complete Stack Assembly and Stack Destruction as many times as you choose during the Presentation, highest scores will be used, but your team must remove all Stack Items from the Target Zones and the Assembly Zone before beginning Stack Assembly again.

Stack Items and Equipment may be modified between attempts.


✅ Create and present a story about at least one character who lacks something important, tangible or intangible, and attempts to gain it.

Your team may choose whether or not the character(s) gain The Important Thing during the story.

✅ Include a Wishful Scene, in which the character(s) express an intense desire for The Important Thing.

✅ Include a Frustration Point, in which it seems as if the character(s) have no way of gaining The Important Thing.

The Wishful and Frustrations may be in any order, but must be distinct.

Any Setting.

✅ Present TWO creations that show off your team’s interests, skills, areas of strength, and talents.
Your team may create anything you wish, including props, music, technical gadgets, costumes, physical actions, etc.
Each Team Choice Element should have a meaningful connection to your team’s Central Challenge solution and must be presented as part of the 8-minute Presentation.
Each Element is judged on Creativity, Effort, and Integration into the Presentation.



Overview of the Technical Challenge Areas
    Text overlays: 
    Presentation Area 20ft x 20ft
    Assembly Zone 2ft x 2ft

Overview of Target Zones: 
    Target Zone 1 1ft x 1ft
    Target Zone 2 2ft x 2ft
    Target Zone 3 3ft x 3ft

Check in with Appraisers
    Team is outside the Presentation Area, with all equipment and Stack Items
    Appraisers check for compliance with the Challenge requirements (clipboard emoji, question mark emoji)    
    kids respond to Appraisers' questions and make any necessary adjustments

Pre-Setup
    Team enters with Assembly Equipment, Destruction Equipment, and Stack Items, outside the floor area
    Team sets up equipment and places Stack Items

Are you Ready?
Aye Aye Captain!
Time Starts Now!

Initial setup of Presentation Area
    (kids toss props, tc elements into presentation area, not target areas)
    toss stackables into assembly area
    toss assembly equipment in assembly area
    toss destruction equipment in destruction area

Story begins
    (some kids in presentation area, some zones to use equipment)
    A Wishful Scene occurs 
            (15/15 pts for Dramatic Impact of Wishful Scene)
            (20/20 Points are allocated for Creativity of how someone wishes for how someone attempts to gain something they lack)
            (5/15 beginning points for Clear and Effective Storytelling)
        Assembly Equipment activates
            (15/15 pts Design Assembly, my magic wand is designed well)
            (15/15 pts Innovation Assembly)
        Stack Items begin moving into Assembly Zone
            (0/30 Risk for Stackables design points are allocated, as my items are cubes, the least risky shape)
        Team Choice Element 1 presentation
            (10/10 Creativity and Originality, mine is the only IcosaDodecahedron Team Choice element)
            (10/10 Quality, Workmanship, or Effort, for my IcosaDodecahedron is perfect mathematically)
            (10/10 Integration into the Presentation, its very integrated)
        Stack assembly completes
        Team signals completion of Stack Assembly
            (2/30 Risk Stack Design points are allocated, as my stack was one of top of the other, no wobble, only a pyramid is safer)
    Frustration Point occurs in story
        (5/15 middle points for Clear and Effective Storytelling, things are easy to understand, and events happen for reasons)
        (15/15 pts for Dramatic Impact of Frustration Point)
        Destruction Equipment activates
            (15 pts Design Destruction)
            (15 pts Innovation Destruction)
        Stack Destruction begins
        Stack Items move out of Assembly Zone
        Stack Items land in various Target Zones
        Stack Destruction completes (all items out of Assembly Zone)
        Team signals end of Stack Destruction (if not already complete)
        (Points calculation for Stack Items in Target Zones
            Four half points for each item in Target Zone 1
            Two points for each item in Target Zone 2
            One point for each item in Target Zone 3
            Zero points for each item outside Target Zones or in the Assembly Zone
        )
    Team Choice Element 2 presentation
        (My creative and original 10/10 Dodecahedron is presented, of perfect 10/10 quality, and integrated 10/10)
    Story resolution
        (5/15 end points for Clear and Effective Storytelling, someone laughed)
(Optional) Repeat steps 5-18 if team chooses multiple attempts
Team calls "TIME!"
Judges ask questions
Review organized points
    
End of 8-minute time limit
